README.md, before:

# Rocket Raiders

Rocket Raiders is a fast-paced multiplayer space shooter game where players engage in thrilling cosmic battles using high-speed rockets and powerful weapons. The game takes you to the depths of space, where skillful maneuvering and strategic attacks are the keys to survival.

## Table of Contents

- [Rocket Raiders](#rocket-raiders)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Scripts](#scripts)
  - [Gameplay](#gameplay)
  - [Development](#development)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

## Features

- **Multiplayer Battles:** Engage in real-time cosmic battles against players from around the world.
- **Dynamic Gameplay:** Navigate your rocket through an ever-changing field of asteroids and enemies.
- **Power-Ups:** Collect power-ups to enhance your rocket's abilities and survive longer.
- **High Scores:** Compete with friends and players worldwide for the highest score.
- **Responsive Design:** Enjoy the game on both desktop and mobile devices.
- **Immersive Soundtrack:** Experience the thrill of space with an engaging soundtrack and sound effects.

## Technologies Used

- MERN Stack (MongoDB, Express.js, React.js, Node.js)
- Redis
- EJS (Embedded JavaScript)
- Vanilla JavaScript
- HTML5 Canvas
- CSS3
- [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) (Module bundler)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/GoldenThrust/rocket-raiders.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd rocket-raiders
   ```
3. Install the dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. Configure the environment variables by creating a `.env` file in the root directory based on the `.env-example` file:
   ```bash
   cp .env-example .env
   ```
   Update the `.env` file with your configuration:
   ```env
   DEV=true
   PORT=3001
   REDIS_URL=127.0.0.1:6379
   MONGODB_URI='mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/rocket-raiders'
   COOKIE_SECRET=your_cookie_secret
   JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
   VITE_HOST_URL=https://localhost:3001
   HOST_URL=https://localhost:3001
   EMAIL_HOST=smtp.mailtrap.io
   EMAIL_PORT=587
   EMAIL_USER=your_email_user
   EMAIL_PASS=your_email_pass
   ```
5. Set up email service for user authentication.
 This configuration is required to send verification emails, password reset emails, etc.
 You can use services like MailDev, [Mailtrap](https://mailtrap.io/) or [SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com/en-us).
 Make sure to replace the placeholder values in .env with your email service credentials.
6. Run the following commands to build and serve the application:
   ```bash
   npm run pack
   npm run build
   npm run server
   ```
   
7. Open your browser and go to `http://localhost:3001` to play the game.

> Note: Always use npm run start-server when not running in production or https server. 


## Scripts

Below are the available npm scripts for the project:

- **build:** Compiles the production build of the client using `cross-env` and `react-router`.
  ```bash
  npm run build
  ```
- **dev:** Starts the development server with `react-router`.
  ```bash
  npm run dev
  ```
- **start:** Serves the built client files using `serve`.
  ```bash
  npm run start
  ```
- **typecheck:** Runs type checking using `react-router typegen` and `tsc`.
  ```bash
  npm run typecheck
  ```
- **server:** Runs the server by executing `index.js` and `worker.js`.
  ```bash
  npm run server
  ```
- **start-server:** Starts the server with `nodemon` for automatic restarts.
  ```bash
  npm run start-server
  ```
- **pack:** Bundles the application using `webpack`.
  ```bash
  npm run pack
  ```
- **test:** Placeholder for running tests.
  ```bash
  npm test
  ```

## Gameplay

- **Controls:**  
  - **Keyboard**: Use the **arrow keys** to move the rocket.  
  - **Shooting**: Press **Enter** or **Shift** to shoot, or click/hold the screen (on mobile) to shoot.
  - **Mobile**: Hold the screen to shoot and move the rocket using device motion (tilt the phone).
  
- **Objective:**  
  The goal of **Rocket Raiders** is to accumulate the most kills by destroying enemy rockets and obstacles. Engage in fast-paced, multiplayer cosmic battles and be the last rocket standing with the highest kill count.

- **Tips:**  
  - Keep an eye on the Minimap of the screen for incoming enemies.
  - Use power-ups strategically to boost your chances of survival.
  - Always keep moving to avoid being an easy target.

## Development

Feel free to contribute to Rocket Raiders. Here are the steps to set up the development environment:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature-name
   ```
3. Commit your changes:
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Add feature or fix description"
   ```
4. Push your branch:
   ```bash
   git push origin feature-name
   ```
5. Create a pull request.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file for more information on how to get involved.

## License

Rocket Raiders is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more information.

Commit message:

feat: Add automatic rocket and map creation

README.md, after:

# Rocket Raiders

Rocket Raiders is a fast-paced multiplayer space shooter game where players engage in thrilling cosmic battles using high-speed rockets and powerful weapons. The game takes you to the depths of space, where skillful maneuvering and strategic attacks are the keys to survival.

## Table of Contents

- [Rocket Raiders](#rocket-raiders)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Scripts](#scripts)
  - [Gameplay](#gameplay)
  - [Development](#development)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

## Features

- **Multiplayer Battles:** Engage in real-time cosmic battles against players from around the world.
- **Dynamic Gameplay:** Navigate your rocket through an ever-changing field of asteroids and enemies.
- **Power-Ups:** Collect power-ups to enhance your rocket's abilities and survive longer.
- **High Scores:** Compete with friends and players worldwide for the highest score.
- **Responsive Design:** Enjoy the game on both desktop and mobile devices.
- **Immersive Soundtrack:** Experience the thrill of space with an engaging soundtrack and sound effects.

## Technologies Used

- MERN Stack (MongoDB, Express.js, React.js, Node.js)
- Redis
- EJS (Embedded JavaScript)
- Vanilla JavaScript
- HTML5 Canvas
- CSS3
- [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) (Module bundler)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/GoldenThrust/rocket-raiders.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd rocket-raiders
   ```
3. Install the dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
4. Configure the environment variables by creating a `.env` file in the root directory based on the `.env-example` file:
   ```bash
   cp .env-example .env
   ```
   Update the `.env` file with your configuration:
   ```env
   DEV=true
   PORT=3001
   REDIS_URL=127.0.0.1:6379
   MONGODB_URI='mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/rocket-raiders'
   COOKIE_SECRET=your_cookie_secret
   JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
   VITE_HOST_URL=https://localhost:3001
   HOST_URL=https://localhost:3001
   EMAIL_HOST=smtp.mailtrap.io
   EMAIL_PORT=587
   EMAIL_USER=your_email_user
   EMAIL_PASS=your_email_pass
   ```
5. Set up email service for user authentication.
 This configuration is required to send verification emails, password reset emails, etc.
 You can use services like MailDev, [Mailtrap](https://mailtrap.io/) or [SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com/en-us).
 Make sure to replace the placeholder values in .env with your email service credentials.
6. Run the following commands to build and serve the application:
   ```bash
   npm run pack
   npm run build
   npm run server
   ```
   
7. Open your browser and go to `http://localhost:3001` to play the game.

> Note: Always use npm run start-server when not running in production or https server. 
8. To create a Rocket and Map, you need to set up an admin account. Run the following command, which will prompt you to enter your email address. After entering your email, a link will be sent to activate your account:

```bash
node createAdmin.js
```
9. Once the admin account is created, navigate to http://localhost:3001/auth/admin/login. Enter your activated email address, and an authentication link will be sent to your email. Click on the link to authenticate.

10. After authentication, click on the login button. You will be redirected to the homepage, where you can add rockets and image assets.


## Scripts

Below are the available npm scripts for the project:

- **build:** Compiles the production build of the client using `cross-env` and `react-router`.
  ```bash
  npm run build
  ```
- **dev:** Starts the development server with `react-router`.
  ```bash
  npm run dev
  ```
- **start:** Serves the built client files using `serve`.
  ```bash
  npm run start
  ```
- **typecheck:** Runs type checking using `react-router typegen` and `tsc`.
  ```bash
  npm run typecheck
  ```
- **server:** Runs the server by executing `index.js` and `worker.js`.
  ```bash
  npm run server
  ```
- **start-server:** Starts the server with `nodemon` for automatic restarts.
  ```bash
  npm run start-server
  ```
- **pack:** Bundles the application using `webpack`.
  ```bash
  npm run pack
  ```
- **test:** Placeholder for running tests.
  ```bash
  npm test
  ```

## Gameplay

- **Controls:**  
  - **Keyboard**: Use the **arrow keys** to move the rocket.  
  - **Shooting**: Press **Enter** or **Shift** to shoot, or click/hold the screen (on mobile) to shoot.
  - **Mobile**: Hold the screen to shoot and move the rocket using device motion (tilt the phone).
  
- **Objective:**  
  The goal of **Rocket Raiders** is to accumulate the most kills by destroying enemy rockets and obstacles. Engage in fast-paced, multiplayer cosmic battles and be the last rocket standing with the highest kill count.

- **Tips:**  
  - Keep an eye on the Minimap of the screen for incoming enemies.
  - Use power-ups strategically to boost your chances of survival.
  - Always keep moving to avoid being an easy target.

## Development

Feel free to contribute to Rocket Raiders. Here are the steps to set up the development environment:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature-name
   ```
3. Commit your changes:
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Add feature or fix description"
   ```
4. Push your branch:
   ```bash
   git push origin feature-name
   ```
5. Create a pull request.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file for more information on how to get involved.

## License

Rocket Raiders is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more information.
